# Predicting Hospital Readmissions for Patients with Diabetes
### The Problem
Healthcare, which has long been an important issue, has become an even more increasingly popular topic over the last several years since 2010, when President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law. One reason why is the amount that the United States spends on healthcare services each year. It is estimated that we spend roughly 18% of our GDP on healthcare services, which equates to about $3.5 trillion or $10,739 per person.

Employers bear a lot of the costs associated with healthcare since they are the leading provider of health insurance today. Also, the Medicare population has been increasing and will continue to do so as Baby Boomers pass the 65 years of age mark. With these costs and demographics in mind, it is vital that employers and CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) control costs without reducing the quality of care that hospitals and physicians provide.

In March 2018, the American Diabetes Association released its findings from a 2017 study which explored the economic costs diabetes. According to this study, it is estimated that the total costs of diabetes rose to $327 billion per year in 2017, $237 billion of which can be attributed to direct medical costs and $90 billion due to lost productivity. People with diagnosed diabetes pay approximately 2.3x more than people who do not have a diagnosis of diabetes. 

In 2015, diabetes was listed as the underlying cause of death on 79,535 death certificates, making it the 7th leading cause of death in the United States. Further, it was mentioned on 252,806 certificates as one of the causes. Diabetes may also be underreported since only about 35-40% of people with diabetes who died had diabetes mentioned on their certificate, and only about 10-15% had it listed as the underlying cause of death.

With all of these statistics in mind, I want to explore the health and economic burdens that diabetes causes on communities throughout the country using data from the CDC. I also want to use publicly available payment and quality data from CMS to identify hospitals that are providing higher quality services related to diabetes at lower costs as compared to ones that are performing worse.
